refactor OID4VC sections to include ISO mdocs (#228)
openid/OpenID4VC-HAIP: openid4vc-high-assurance-interoperability-profile-1_0.md

> This specification enables interoperable implementations of the following flows:

Reviewer: We do have an open issue on this topic so could defer some of this to be handled in this issue: https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VC-HAIP/issues/193 (which is also targeted for 1.0).

This specification enables interoperable implementations of the following flows:

* Issuance of IETF SD-JWT VC using OpenID4VCI

> * Issuance of ISO mdocs using OpenID4VCI

Reviewer: We have a ticket for the cross-device/same-device already: https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VC-HAIP/issues/241 so it's only the companion devices one we still need to create.

> * Issuance of ISO mdocs using OpenID4VCI

Reviewer: Raised https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VC-HAIP/issues/248 to further discuss companion devices.

Additional requirements for OpenID4VP are defined in (#oid4vp-redirects), (#oid4vp-dc-api) and (#oid4vp-credential-formats).

## OpenID for Verifiable Presentations via Redirects {#oid4vp-redirects}

The following requirements apply to OpenID4VP via redirects, unless specified otherwise:

* As a way to invoke the Wallet, at least a custom URL scheme `haip://` MUST be supported by the Wallet and the Verifier. Implementations MAY support other ways to invoke the Wallets as agreed by trust frameworks/ecosystems/jurisdictions, not limited to using other custom URL schemes.
* Signed Authorization Requests MUST be used by utilizing JWT-Secured Authorization Request (JAR) [@!RFC9101] with the `request_uri` parameter.
* Response encryption MUST be used by utilizing response mode `direct_post.jwt`, as defined in Section 8.3 of [@!OIDF.OID4VP]. Security Considerations in Section 14.3 of [@!OIDF.OID4VP] MUST be applied.

> * Same-device flows MUST be used by enforcing `redirect_uri` in response to the HTTP POST request from the Wallet, as defined in Section 8.2 of [@!OIDF.OID4VP]. Implementation considerations in Section 13.3 and Security Considerations in Section 14.2 of [@!OIDF.OID4VP] MUST be applied. Verifiers MUST abort the validation if the `redirect_uri` was not called by the Wallet or could not be matched with the initial browser session.

Reviewer: Discussed on this morning's WG call:

Does this prevent wallets from implementing cross-device for non-high assurance cases? That would seem like an undesirable outcome.

Also due to DC API not being widely available yet (e.g. on iOS, or for web wallets), HAIP should consider (at least in 1.0) allowing cross device flows using redirects as otherwise some use cases won't work.

(I added this comment on #98 too)

The following requirements apply to OpenID4VP, irrespective of the flow and Credential Format, unless specified otherwise:

* The Wallet and Verifier MUST support at least one of the following Credential Format Profiles defined in (#vc-profiles): IETF SD-JWT VC or ISO mdoc. Ecosystems SHOULD clearly indicate which of these formats, IETF SD-JWT VC, ISO mdoc, or both, are required to be supported.
* The Response type MUST be `vp_token`.
* For signed requests, the Verifier MUST use, and the Wallet MUST accept the Client Identifier Prefix `x509_hash` as defined in Section 5.9.3 of [@!OIDF.OID4VP].
* The DCQL query and response as defined in Section 6 of [@!OIDF.OID4VP] MUST be used.
* Response encryption MUST be performed as specified in [@!OIDF.OID4VP, section 8.3]. The JWE `alg` (algorithm) header parameter (see [@!RFC7516, section 4.1.1])
  value `ECDH-ES` (as defined in [@!RFC7518, section 4.6]), with key agreement utilizing keys on the `P-256` curve (see [@!RFC7518, section 6.2.1.1]) MUST be supported.
  The JWE `enc` (encryption algorithm) header parameter (see [@!RFC7516, section 4.1.2]) value `A128GCM` (as defined in [@!RFC7518, section 5.3]) MUST be supported.

> Additional requirements for OpenID4VP are defined in (#oid4vp-flows) and (#oid4vp-dc-api).
> 
> ## Requirements specific to Flows {#oid4vp-flows}
> 
> ### OpenID for Verifiable Presentations via Redirects {#oid4vp-redirects}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additional requirements for OpenID4VP are defined in (#oid4vp-redirects) and (#oid4vp-dc-api).

## OpenID for Verifiable Presentations via Redirects {#oid4vp-redirects}
```

The following requirements apply to OpenID4VP via redirects, unless specified otherwise:

* As a way to invoke the Wallet, at least a custom URL scheme `haip://` MUST be supported by the Wallet and the Verifier. Implementations MAY support other ways to invoke the Wallets as agreed by trust frameworks/ecosystems/jurisdictions, not limited to using other custom URL schemes.

> * The Verifier MUST use signed requests.

Reviewer 2: isn't this covered/should be merged with line 208 indicating requirement for JAR?
```suggestion
```

> * The Response mode MUST be `direct_post.jwt`. The Verifier MUST return `redirect_uri` in response to the HTTP POST request from the Wallet, where the Wallet redirects the User to, as defined in Section 8.2 of [@!OIDF.OID4VP]. Implementation considerations for the response mode `direct_post.jwt` are given in Section 14.3 of [@!OIDF.OID4VP].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Response encryption MUST be used by utilizing response mode `direct_post.jwt`, as defined in Section 8.3 of [@!OIDF.OID4VP]. Security Considerations in Section 14.3 of [@!OIDF.OID4VP] MUST be applied.
* Same-device flows MUST be used by enforcing `redirect_uri` in response to the HTTP POST request from the Wallet, as defined in Section 8.2 of [@!OIDF.OID4VP]. Implementation considerations in Section 13.3 and Security Considerations in Section 14.2 of [@!OIDF.OID4VP] MUST be applied.
```

> * The Authorization Request MUST be sent using the `request_uri` parameter as defined in JWT-Secured Authorization Request (JAR) [@!RFC9101].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The Authorization Request MUST be sent as a signed JWT-Secured Authorization Request (JAR) [@!RFC9101]  using the `request_uri` parameter.
```

> ### OpenID for Verifiable Presentations via W3C Digital Credentials API {#oid4vp-dc-api}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## OpenID for Verifiable Presentations via W3C Digital Credentials API {#oid4vp-dc-api}
```

The Credential Issuer MUST support metadata retrieval according to Section 12.2.2 of [@!OIDF.OID4VCI].
The Credential Issuer metadata MUST include a scope for every Credential Configuration it supports.

# OpenID for Verifiable Presentations

> 

Author: ```suggestion

Both the Wallet and the Credential Issuer:
* MUST support at least one of the Credential format profiles and protocol extensions defined in (#vc_profiles).

```

  value `ECDH-ES` (as defined in [@!RFC7518, section 4.6]), with key agreement utilizing keys on the `P-256` curve (see [@!RFC7518, section 6.2.1.1]) MUST be supported.
  The JWE `enc` (encryption algorithm) header parameter (see [@!RFC7516, section 4.1.2]) value `A128GCM` (as defined in [@!RFC7518, section 5.3]) MUST be supported.

## ISO mdoc specific requirements for OpenID for Verifiable Presentations

Requirements for both the Wallet and the Verifier:

* ISO mdoc Credential Format specific DCQL parameter, `intent_to_retain` defined in Annex B.3.1 of [@!OIDF.OID4VP] MUST be present.
* When multiple ISO mdocs are being returned, each ISO mdoc MUST be returned in a separate `DeviceResponse` (as defined in 8.3.2.1.2.2 of [@!ISO.18013-5]), each matching to a respective DCQL query. Therefore, the resulting `vp_token` contains multiple `DeviceResponse` instances.

Note that the Credential Format Identifier and `SessionTranscript` CBOR structures are defined in [@!OIDF.OID4VP].

## IETF SD-JWT VC specific requirements for OpenID for Verifiable Presentations

Requirements for both the Wallet and the Verifier:

> * The Credential Format identifier MUST be `dc+sd-jwt`.

Reviewer: opened https://github.com/openid/oid4vc-haip/issues/232 for this

> * Response encryption MUST be performed as specified in [@!OIDF.OID4VP, section 8.3]. The JWE `alg` (algorithm) header parameter (see [@!RFC7516, section 4.1.1])

Reviewer 3: Not exactly related to this change but given it is cleaning up the text: Any reason these are W3C DC API only? 

Ditto for x509_hash being OpenID for Verifiable Presentations via Redirects only. 

If they are indeed shared, would it be better to have a section that is for requirements of OpenID for Verifiable Presentations independent of engagment mode, and just have the two profiles for the two different mechanism from a support perspective.

Note: In some Credential Types, it is not desirable to include an expiration date (eg: diploma attestation). Therefore, this profile leaves its inclusion to the Issuer, or the body defining the respective Credential Type.

### Issuer identification and key resolution to validate an issued Credential {#issuer-key-resolution}

This profile mandates the support for X.509 certificate-based key resolution to validate the issuer signature of an SD-JWT VC. This MUST be supported by all entities (Issuer, Wallet, Verifier). The SD-JWT VC MUST contain the credential issuer's certificate along with a trust chain in the `x5c` JOSE header parameter as described in section 3.5 of [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc].

#### Cryptographic Holder Binding between VC and VP

* For Cryptographic Holder Binding, a KB-JWT, as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], MUST always be present when presenting an SD-JWT VC.

> # Crypto Suites

Reviewer: I agree but I think we should continue this discussion in https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VC-HAIP/issues/112 as further WG discussion is definitely needed before we reach a consensus.

   * Old link in section 8 & clarify a note on claim based binding in OpenID4VP in HAIP #183
   * Clarify clause 4.1 statement #169
   * add a list of all specifications being profiled #145
   * refactor to separate generic and SD-JWT clauses
   * add support for ISO mdoc isssuance
   * add support for ISO mdoc when using redirect-based OID4VP

>    * restrict OID4VP redirect flow to same-device case

Reviewer: This part isn't present anymore:

```suggestion
```

   * Old link in section 8 & clarify a note on claim based binding in OpenID4VP in HAIP #183
   * Clarify clause 4.1 statement #169
   * add a list of all specifications being profiled #145

>    * refactor sections to align ISO mdoc issuance and presentation with SD-JWT VC

Reviewer: Suggest being a bit more explicit about what's changed:

```suggestion
 
   * refactor to separate generic and SD-JWT clauses
   * add support for ISO mdoc isssuance
   * add support for ISO mdoc when using redirect-based OID4VP
   * restrict OID4VP redirect flow to same-device case
```
